---
title: Push_swap
description: My push_swap notes.
author: Mathijs
date: 2025-05-20 09:20:00 +0100
categories: [CODAM]
tags: []
pin: false
math: false
mermaid: true
---

## Push_swap
This will just be a thought collection or code snippet storage. Not a detailed walkthrough or example of push_swap.

This project involves sorting a stack of integers in the least amount of operations possible.

## Algorithm
I start by pushing all the elements but 3 from stack a to stack b.
Or if stack a is already sorted while pushing to stack b I stop pushing prematurely.
After pushing everything into stack b I start sorting them back to stack a.

For every push finding the least amount of operations for the current status of both stacks.
There are 4 sort types to check;
- both stacks rotate
- both stacks reverse_rotate
- stack a rotate, stack b reverse_rotate
- stack a reverse_rotate, stack b rotate

Then sort according to the most optimal of these 4 options.
Repeat this sorting process until the entire stack is sorted.

## Small sort
There are some extra requirements for sorting low n size stacks. \
The sorting of stack size 5 should be a maximum of 12 operations. \
The sorting of stack size 3 should be a maximum of 3 operations.

### Sort 3
If the order of the integers is stacked in the following order the maximum amount of operations will be a maximum of 2.
- if 012 -> sorted //do noting when this is the case
- if 102 -> swap //now is sorted
- 210 -> swap //new state = 120
- 021 -> swap //new state = 201
- 120 -> sorted after 1 rev_rot //now is sorted
- 201 -> sorted after 1 rot //now is sorted

### Sort 5
When using the Sort 3 combined with the normal algorithm the amount of operations will be lower than the 12 operation limit.

## Useful link dump
[Online-visualizer](https://push-swap42-visualizer.vercel.app/)

[Random number input generator](https://numbergenerator.org/randomnumbergenerator#!numbers=100&low=-1000&high=1000&unique=true&csv=&oddeven=&oddqty=0&sorted=false&addfilters=)
