---
title: ft_printf
description: My ft_printf notes.
author: Mathijs
date: 2025-05-07 14:06:00 +0100
categories: [CODAM]
tags: []
pin: false
math: false
mermaid: true
---

## ft_printf
This will just be a thought collection or code snippet storage. Not a detailed walkthrough or example of ft_printf.

Your implementation will be evaluated against the behavior of the [original printf()](https://cplusplus.com/reference/cstdio/printf/).

## inputs
int ft_printf(const char *, ...);

check if the const char * is not NULL.

This needs to be handled by [variatic functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variadic_function).

You have to implement the following conversions:
- %c Prints a single character.
- %s Prints a string (as defined by the common C convention).
- %p The void * pointer argument has to be printed in hexadecimal format.
- %d Prints a decimal (base 10) number.
- %i Prints an integer in base 10.
- %u Prints an unsigned decimal (base 10) number.
- %x Prints a number in hexadecimal (base 16) lowercase format.
- %X Prints a number in hexadecimal (base 16) uppercase format.
- %% Prints a percent sign.

## handle the functions
%c Prints a single character.
- The int argument is converted to an unsigned  char, and the resulting character is written.

%s Prints a string (as defined by the common C convention).
- The const char * argument is expected to be a pointer to an array of character type (pointer to a string).  Characters from the array are written up to (but not including) a terminating null byte ('\0');
- If the  precision is not specified, or is greater than the size of the array, the array must contain a terminating null byte.
- if NULL print (null)

%p The void * pointer argument has to be printed in hexadecimal format.
- The void * pointer argument is printed in hexadecimal.
- if NULL print (nil)

%d Prints a decimal (base 10) number.
- The  int  argument is converted to signed decimal notation.

%i Prints an integer in base 10.
- The  int  argument is converted to signed decimal notation.

%u Prints an unsigned decimal (base 10) number.
- The unsigned int argument is converted to an unsigned  decimal.

%x Prints a number in hexadecimal (base 16) lowercase format.
- The unsigned int argument is converted to unsigned hexadecimal.
- The letters abcdef are used for x conversions.

%X Prints a number in hexadecimal (base 16) uppercase format.
- The unsigned int argument is converted to unsigned hexadecimal.
- The letters ABCDEF are used for x conversions.

%% Prints a percent sign.
- A '%' is written.  No argument is converted.


## return value
Upon successful return, these functions return the number of characters printed (excluding the null byte used to end output to strings).

If an output error is encountered, a negative value is returned.
