---
title: TODO list
description: My To Do list for the content I want to fill this website with
author: Mathijs
date: 2025-03-01 21:57:00 +0100
categories: [TODO, WIP]
tags: [site]
pin: true
math: false
mermaid: false
---


## General list

- [ ] Theory
  - [ ] Big O notation
  - [ ] Linked lists
  - [ ] Git usage
  - [ ] Language specific syntaxing
- [ ] Projects
  - [ ] Shortcut keypad
  - [ ]  
- [ ] CODAM
  - [ ] Piscine
- [ ] Learning/Documentation
- [ ] Fun collection
- [ ] Fill about page

## List description

A more elaborate description for all the todo list items.

### Theory

In general the theory pages will be summaries of varied programming theories that are usefull to know. I like creating my own explanations for things to better teach people and for me to understand.

#### Big O notation

I have always known what the big O notation meant, but wanted a clear visualisation with graph, code, example times and explanation in 1 place.

#### Linked lists

how do they work. how to use them, WHY and WHEN to use them.

#### Language specific syntaxing

How and why does the struct syntaxing work for C.
how and why does the typedef syntaxing work for C.
What is de difference between ++i or i++.
char *str or char str[].
difference between str++ and str[i].

### Projects

This will be pages dedicated to projects I did or am doing.

#### Shortcut Keypad

I made a shotcut keypad for fun. But wanted to document some desight choices/finding to remind myself later when i finally finish this project.

### CODAM

This page will be filled with thing specifically related to CODAM.

### Learning/Documentation

Collection of interesting documents/websites/project/topics found on the internet to explore later.

### Fun collection

Collection of fun documents/websites/project/topics found on the internet to explore later.

### Fill about page

fill the page. who i am, why i did certain things, how i did certain things.
